DANS BagPack Profile v1.0.0
===========================

Introduction
------------

### Version

* Document version: 1.0.0
* Publication date: N/A

### Status

The status of this document is DRAFT.

### Scope

This document specifies what constitutes an acceptable DANS BagPack. This includes all the requirements for a bag to be successfully processed by the DANS Data
Vault ingest workflow.

### Overview and Conventions

#### Keywords

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC 2119]{:target=_blank}.

The key word "SHOULD" is also used to specify requirements that are impossible or impractical to check by the archival organization (i.e. DANS). The client
should do its best to meet these requirements, but not rely on their being validated by the archival organization.

#### Subdivisions

The requirements are subdivided into the following sections:

* RDA BagPack Related - requirements that refer back to the [RDA BagPack]{:target=_blank} specifications. If a bag only needs to comply with the RDA BagPack
  specifications, then it should be sufficient to only check this section.
* Extra Requirements for DANS BagPack - requirements that are specific to the DANS BagPack Profile, and which are in addition to the RDA BagPack requirements.

The sections are numbered and may have numbered subsections. The requirements themselves are stated as numbered rules. Rules may have parts that are labeled
with letters: (a), (b), (c), etc. To uniquely identify a specific rule, use the notation

```
<section-nr>[.<subsection-nr>].<rule-nr> [(<letter>)]
```

Example: `2.3.4 (e)` means part **e** of the fourth rule in subsection 3 of section 2.


Requirements
------------

### 1. RDA BagPack Related

The following items are required by the [RDA BagPack]{:target=_blank} specifications:

1. A DANS BagPack MUST be valid according to [BagIt v1.0]{:target=_blank}.
2. A DANS BagPack MUST contain a file `metadata/datacite.xml` (a) this file MUST be valid according to the
   [DataCite schema version 4.0 or later]{:target=_blank}, except for the requirement that there MUST be a DOI present: a DOI is not required for a DANS
   BagPack; (b) [DataCite's recommended properties]{:target=_blank} SHOULD be present.
3. Other files besides `datacite.xml` MAY be present in the `metadata` folder.
4. The files in the `metadata` folder MUST be mentioned in the `tag-manifest` (this is optional in BagIt, but required by RDA BagPack).
5. `BagIt-Profile-Identifier` MUST be provided.

### 2. Extra Requirements for DANS BagPack

The following items are required by the DANS BagPack Profile, in addition to the requirements of RDA BagPack:

1. `BagIt-Profile-Identifier` MUST contain `https://doi.org/10.17026/e948-0r32`.
2. The bag must be valid according to the [DANS BagPack BagIt Profile]{:target=_blank}.
3. There MUST be a file called `metadata/pid-mapping.txt`: the structure of this file MUST be rows of `<identifier>  <referenced object>`, where `<identifier>`
   is a unique URI and `<referenced object>` is the path to the file relative to the root of the bag, and both are separated by one or more spaces.
4. (a) There MUST be a file called `metadata/oai-ore.jsonld`; (b) this file MUST be well-formed JSON.
5. There MUST be a one-to-one mapping between the files in the `data` folder and the files described in the Aggregation contained in  `oai-ore.jsonld` file: (a)
   all identifiers mentioned in the `oai-ore.jsonld` that refer to files in the `data` folder MUST be present in `pid-mapping.txt`; (b) all file objects
   mentioned in the `pid-mapping.txt` MUST be present in the `oai-ore.jsonld`.

[RFC 2119]: {{ rfc_2119 }}
[BagIt v1.0]: {{ bagit }}
[RDA BagPack]: {{ rda_bagpack }}
[DataCite schema version 4.0 or later]: {{ datacite_4_0 }}
[DANS BagPack BagIt Profile]: {{ dans_bagpack_bagit_profile }}
[DataCite's recommended properties]: {{ levels_of_obligation }}